Update Advisor Cost Optimization Workbook Microsoft official documentation (#118664)
Azure/azure-content: articles/advisor/advisor-cost-optimization-workbook.md

#### **SQL**

Azure Hybrid Benefit represents an excellent opportunity to save costs on SQL instances.
If you have Software Assurance, you can enable [SQL Hybrid Benefit](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/azure-hybrid-benefit?tabs=azure-powershell).
You can see potential savings using [Azure Hybrid Benefit Calculator ](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/hybrid-benefit/#calculator "Azure Hybrid Benefit Calculator ")

> NOTE
> If you have selected Dev/Test subscription(s) within the scope of this Workbook, then you should already have discounts on SQL licenses, so recommendations here don’t apply to this subscription(s).

#### **Azure Stack HCI**

Azure Hybrid Benefit represents an excellent opportunity to save costs on Azure Stack HCI. If you have Software Assurance, you can enable [Azure Stack HCI Hybrid Benefit](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/hci/concepts/azure-hybrid-benefit-hci?tabs=azure-portal).

### Azure Reservations

> Review Azure Reservations cost saving opportunities. Use filters of subscriptions, look back period (7, 30 or 60 days), term (1 year or 3 years) and resource type.

Reviewer: Add a link to learn more about Reservations

### Azure savings plan for compute

> Review Azure savings plan for compute cost saving opportunities. Use filters of subscriptions, look back period (7, 30 or 60 days) and term (1 year or 3 years).

Reviewer: Add a link to learn more about Savings Plan

## Usage Optimization

This tab focus on reviewing potential savings related to usage optimization of your Azure services.

<figure>
    <img src="media/Advisor-Workbook-UsageOpt.png" alt="Advisor Cost Optimization Workbook with the Usage Optimization tab selected">
</figure>

### Compute

#### **Virtual Machines in a Stopped State**

> This query identifies Virtual Machines that are not properly deallocated. If a virtual machine’s status is Stopped rather than Stopped (Deallocated), you are still billed for the resource as the hardware remains allocated for you.

Reviewer: Add a link to learn more about VM states and billing.

To save 60% of cost, we recommend storing your snapshots in Standard Storage, regardless of the storage type of the parent disk. It is the default option for Managed Disks snapshots. Migrate your snapshot from Premium to Standard Storage.

#### **Snapshots with deleted source disk**

This query identifies snapshots where the source disk has been deleted.

#### **Idle Backup**

Review protected items backup activity to determine if there are items that have not been backed up in the last 90 days. This could either mean that the underlying resource that's being backed up doesn't exist anymore or there's some issue with the resource that's preventing backups from being taken reliably.

#### **Backup storage redundancy settings**

By default, when you configure backup for resources, geo-redundant storage (GRS) replication is applied to these backups. While this is the recommended storage replication option as it creates more redundancy for your critical data, you can choose to protect items using locally-redundant storage (LRS) if that meets your backup availability needs for dev-test workloads. Using LRS instead of GRS halves the cost of your backup storage.

> 🖱️Click on each vault to see the configured storage replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#### **Azure Firewall instaces per region**

Optimize the use of Azure Firewall by having a central instance of Azure Firewall in the hub virtual network or Virtual WAN secure hub and share the same firewall across many spoke virtual networks that are connected to the same hub from the same region. Ensure there's no unexpected cross-region traffic as part of the hub-spoke topology, nor multiple Azure firewall instances deployed to the same region. To learn more about Azure Firewall design principles, check [Azure Well-Architected Framework review - Azure Firewall](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/well-architected/service-guides/azure-firewall#cost-optimization).

#### **Application Gateway with empty backend pool**

Review the Application Gateways with empty backend pools.
App gateways are considered idle if there isn't any backend pool with targets.

#### **Load Balancer with empty backendpool**

Review the Standard Load Balancers with empty backend pools. Load Balancers are considered idle if there isn’t any backend pool with targets.

#### **Unattached Public IPs**

> Review the orphan Public Ip Addresses. This query will also show Public IP addresses attached to idle NICs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the orphan Public Ip Addresses. This query will also show Public IP addresses attached to idle network interface cards (NIC).
```
